.TH "lfe_gen" "3" "2008\-2016" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
lfe_gen \- Lisp Flavoured Erlang (LFE) dynamic code generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
This module provides an experimental interface for dynamically
generating modules.
.SH DATA TYPES
.PP
\f[B]sexpr()\f[]
.PP
An LFE s\-expression, a list structure.
.SH EXPORTS
.PP
\f[B]compile_forms(Forms) \-> CompRet\f[]
.PP
where
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Forms\ =\ [sexpr()]
CompRet\ =\ BinRet\ |\ ErrRet
BinRet\ =\ {ok,ModuleName,Binary,Warnings}
ErrRet\ =\ {error,Errors,Warnings}
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Compile a list of LFE forms which comprise an LFE module.
For example:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
lfe_gen:compile_forms([[defmodule,foo,[export,[a,0]]],
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [defun,a,[],[quote,yes]]])
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Both \f[C]WarningList\f[] and \f[C]ErrorList\f[] have the following
format:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[{FileName,[ErrorInfo]}]
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[C]ErrorInfo\f[] is described below.
When generating Errors and Warnings the "line number" is the index of
the form in which the error occured.
.PP
\f[B]new_module(Name) \-> ModDef.\f[]
.PP
\f[B]add_exports([{Name,Arity}], ModDef) \-> ModDef.\f[]
.PP
\f[B]add_imports({from,Module,[{Name,Arity}]}, ModDef) \-> ModDef.\f[]
.PP
\f[B]add_form(Form, ModDef) \-> ModDef.\f[]
.PP
\f[B]print_mod(ModDef) \-> iolist().\f[]
.PP
\f[B]compile_mod(Mod) \-> CompRet\f[]
.PP
where
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
CompRet\ =\ BinRet\ |\ ErrRet
BinRet\ =\ {ok,ModuleName,Binary,Warnings}
ErrRet\ =\ {error,Errors,Warnings}
\f[]
.fi
.PP
These functions are used to incrementally create a module which can at
the end be compiled by \f[C]compile_mod/1\f[].
The same example as above could be written:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
M0\ =\ lfe_gen:new_module(foo),
M1\ =\ lfe_gen:add_exports([{a,0}],\ M0),
M2\ =\ lfe_gen:add_form([defun,a,[],[quote,yes]],\ M1),
lfe_gen:compile_mod(M2)
\f[]
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
In this example we build a module of parameters where each parameter has
a number of features which each have a value.
We will create one function for each parameter and the feature is the
functions argument.
The value for each feature is returned.
.PP
We are creating code equivalent to:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\-module(Name).
\-export([<param1>/1,...]).

<param1>(Feature)\ \->
\ \ \ \ case\ Feature\ of
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ <feature1>\ \->\ <value1>;
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ ...
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ _\ \->\ erlang:error({unknown_feature,<param1>,Feature)
\ \ \ \ end.
\&...
\f[]
.fi
.PP
but generating it and compiling it directly in memory without generating
a text file.
We assume that we have collected the data and have it in the form:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Params\ =\ [{Parameter,[{Feature,Value}]}]
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The equivalent LFE code which we will be generating is:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
(defmodule\ Name
\ \ (export\ (<param1>\ 1)\ (<param2>\ 1)\ ...\ ))

(defun\ <param1>\ (f)
\ \ (case\ f
\ \ \ \ (\[aq]<feature1>\ \[aq]<value1>)
\ \ \ \ ...
\ \ \ \ (f\ (:\ erlang\ error\ (tuple\ \[aq]unknown_feature\ \[aq]<param1>\ f)))))
\&...
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The following code builds and compiles a module from the parameter data:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
make_module(Name,\ Params)\ \->
\ \ \ \ Mod0\ =\ lfe_gen:new_module(Name),
\ \ \ \ Exps\ =\ map(fun\ ({F,_})\ \->\ {F,1}\ end,\ Params),
\ \ \ \ Mod1\ =\ lfe_gen:add_exports(Exps,\ Mod0),
\ \ \ \ Mod2\ =\ make_funcs(Params,\ Mod1),
\ \ \ \ lfe_gen:compile_mod(Mod2).

make_funcs([{Param,Fs}|Ps],\ Mod)\ \->
\ \ \ \ %%\ Define\ catch\-all\ which\ generates\ more\ explicit\ exit\ value.
\ \ \ \ CatchAll\ =\ [f,[\[aq]:\[aq],erlang,error,
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [tuple,unknown_feature,[quote,Param],f]]],
\ \ \ \ %%\ Build\ case\ clauses
\ \ \ \ Cls\ =\ foldr(fun\ ({Feature,Value},\ Cls)\ \->
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ [[[quote,Feature],[quote,Value]]|Cls]
\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ end,\ [CatchAll],\ Params),
\ \ \ \ %%\ Build\ function.
\ \ \ \ Func\ =\ [defun,Param,[f],[\[aq]case\[aq],f,Cls]],
\ \ \ \ make_funcs(Ps,\ lfe_gen:add_form(Func,\ Mod));
make_funcs([],\ Mod)\ \->\ Mod.\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ %All\ done
\f[]
.fi
.SH ERROR INFORMATION
.PP
The ErrorInfo mentioned above is the standard ErrorInfo structure which
is returned from all IO modules.
It has the following format:
.PP
\f[B]{ErrorLine,Module,ErrorDescriptor}\f[]
.PP
A string describing the error is obtained with the following call:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
apply(Module,\ format_error,\ ErrorDescriptor)
\f[]
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]lfe_comp(3)\f[], \f[B]lfe_macro(3)\f[]
.SH AUTHORS
Robert Virding.
